# Welcome to the Kansas COVID-19 graph page

These charts are generated by the [covid19ks](https://github.com/jgoerzen/covid19ks) project by John Goerzen.  They are refreshed automatically at least daily.  Last update: {% include_relative graphs/timestamp %}

{% include_relative graphs/script.html %}

# COVID-19 in Central Kansas Counties

{% include_relative graphs/counties-100k-nyt.html %}

Dates of interest:

- The City of Wichita (in Sedgwick County) adopted a face mask ordinance on July 3.
- Harvey County's mask ordinance took effect July 15.
- The Harvey County Fair happened July 30 - August 3 with little observation of COVID-19-safe practices.
- KDHE Sec. Norman says it can take 1 to 2 incubation periods (so 2-4 weeks) for the effects of masks or other enhanced protocols to be visible in the numbers.  Because this chart uses a 7-day simple moving average, the effect is further delayed.

Note that the higher the population of a county, the more useful the statistical data is for interpreting a trend.  Marion County looks bouncy because just one or two people can make a significant difference in the case rate even if it is hard to use to predict a trend. :

# COVID-19 Test Positivity Rates in Kansas

{% include_relative graphs/test-ctp.html %}

This graph shows what percentage of all COVID-19 tests are coming back positive.  The WHO and CDC [recommend](https://coronavirus.jhu.edu/testing/testing-positivity) no more than 5% (the "recommended maximum" line on the chart).  Values above that indicate insufficient testing in the population and greater likelihood of undetected cases.

# Updated graph: masks vs. no-mask counties

{% include_relative graphs/main-pop100k-nyt.html %}

This graph is a different view of the data KDHE Sec. Dr. Norman presented.  It shows new cases per 100,000 population.  Note that the mask counties began with a much higher case rate than the no-mask counties, and after the adoption of masks, significantly narrowed the gap.  The mask counties were and are higher due to being more dense and urban.

Changing mask rules have made the mask vs. no-mask county distinction somewhat arbitrary; for instance, neither Harvey nor Saline adopted mask requirements at the beginning, but did so later.  They are still in the "no mask" category.

# About these charts

These charts are generated by the [covid19ks](https://github.com/jgoerzen/covid19ks) program using the [covid19db](https://github.com/jgoerzen/covid19db) database aggregation, both by John Goerzen.

The charts identified "NYT" use [data](https://github.com/nytimes/covid-19-data) from The New York Times, based on reports from state and local health agencies.  It uses the aggregation at [COVID-19 derived dataset](https://github.com/cipriancraciun/covid19-datasets) for the data.

Charts identified "COVID Tracking Project" use [data](https://covidtracking.com/about-data/) from the COVID Tracking Project at The Atlantic.
