# Welcome to the Kansas COVID-19 graph page

These charts are generated by the [covid19ks](https://github.com/jgoerzen/covid19ks) project by John Goerzen.  They are refreshed automatically at least daily.  Last update: {{ site.time | date_to_rfc822 }}

{% include_relative graphs/script.html %}

# COVID-19 in Central Kansas Counties

{% include_relative graphs/counties-100k-nyt.html %}

Dates of interest:

- The City of Wichita (in Sedgwick County) adopted a face mask ordinance on July 3.
- Harvey County's mask ordinance took effect July 15.
- The Harvey County Fair happened July 30 - August 3 with little observation of COVID-19-safe practices.
- KDHE Sec. Norman says it can take 1 to 2 incubation periods (so 2-4 weeks) for the effects of masks or other enhanced protocols to be visible in the numbers.  Because this chart uses a 7-day simple moving average, the effect is further delayed.

Note that the higher the population of a county, the more useful the statistical data is for interpreting a trend.  Marion County looks bouncy because just one or two people can make a significant difference in the case rate even if it is hard to use to predict a trend.

# New COVID-19 Cases: Global Perspective

{% include_relative graphs/global-100k.html %}

This graph is similar to the one before, but looks at things on a more global perspective.  Again, notice how poorly the USA fares, and how Kansas is even worse.

# Updated graph: masks vs. no-mask counties

{% include_relative graphs/main-pop100k-nyt.html %}

This graph is a different view of the data KDHE Sec. Dr. Norman presented, updated to the present day (his was updated through August 3).  It shows new cases per 100,000 population.  Note that the mask counties began with a much higher case rate than the no-mask counties, and after the adoption of masks, significantly narrowed the gap.  The mask counties were and are higher due to being more dense and urban.

Changing mask rules have made the mask vs. no-mask county distinction somewhat arbitrary; for instance, neither Harvey nor Saline adopted mask requirements at the beginning, but did so later.

# KSDE Metric Graphs

These charts pertain to the [school reopening metrics](https://www.ksde.org/Portals/0/Communications/Navigating%20Change/Gating%20Criteria%20Graphic.pdf?ver=2020-08-13-123107-083) set out by KSDE.

Some of the relevant data is above; additional data is here.

## 2-week cumulative county incidence rate

{% include_relative graphs/counties-100k-sum-nyt.html %}

## COVID-19 Test Positivity Rates - Local & Global Perspective

{% include_relative graphs/test-global.html %}

This graph shows what percentage of all COVID-19 tests are coming back positive.  The WHO and CDC [recommend](https://coronavirus.jhu.edu/testing/testing-positivity) no more than 5% (the "recommended maximum" line on the chart).  Values above that indicate insufficient testing in the population and greater likelihood of undetected cases.

Note how many countries are doing better than the recommended, and, as of August 2020, how poorly both Kansas and the United States are doing.

You will observe an unusual peak in the Kansas data beginning July 27 and extending for 14 days.  There was a data correction that occurred in the underlying data source on July 27, and so it reflects in the 14-day average from that date.

## COVID-19 Test Positivity Rates - Harvey County, KS

{% include_relative graphs/test-harveyco.html %}

This graph shows the percentage of all COVID-19 tests coming back positive, smoothed across a 2-week window at used in the KSDE metrics.

The source data for this comes from the Kansas Department of Health and Environment (KDHE) and from the Harvey County Health Dept.  Neither makes an automated download available, so these may be updated less frequently than the rest of the data on this site because a human must manually update the numbers.


# About these charts

These charts are generated by the [covid19ks](https://github.com/jgoerzen/covid19ks) program using the [covid19db](https://github.com/jgoerzen/covid19db) database aggregation, both by John Goerzen.

The charts identified "NYT" use [data](https://github.com/nytimes/covid-19-data) from The New York Times, based on reports from state and local health agencies.  It uses the aggregation at [COVID-19 derived dataset](https://github.com/cipriancraciun/covid19-datasets) for the data.

Charts identified "COVID Tracking" use [data](https://covidtracking.com/about-data/) from the COVID Tracking Project at The Atlantic.

Charts identified OWID use [data](https://ourworldindata.org/how-to-use-our-world-in-data#how-is-our-work-copyrighted) from Our World in Data.

Charts identified JHU use the [JHU CSSE COVID-19 Data](https://github.com/CSSEGISandData/COVID-19) from Johns Hopkins University.
